---
language: en
title: 2025 Recap and a Look Ahead to 2026
author: "Yoshiki"
pubDatetime: 2025-12-31T23:59:59Z
featured: false
draft: false
tags:
  - life
description: ""
---

[Japanse version is here](/posts/ja-2025-to-2026/)

## Work

Three years have passed since I joined my company, and I am now becoming a senior member. Because of this, I have more autonomy and flexibility in getting things done. I have continued to play a tech lead role since last year, and overall, this was a successful year for my team.

We launched a new project, and our team made meaningful contributions to it. Even though it is still small, we successfully brought it to life. Our goal for next year is to accelerate this project and expand its impact.

My team was quite small this year, but it will to grow as the project develops. I hope I can adapt well to this change. To do so, I need to improve my communication skills—especially my English speaking ability and my skill in expressing product direction through concrete technical implementations. As a software engineer, I must continuously improve both my communication skills and my depth of technical knowledge.

## Private

### Wedding

The biggest personal event of the year was our wedding party. Looking back, I hesitated to have it, I needed to spend a lot of time to prepare and at times I even regretted the decision. However, it turned out to be a shining memory—not only for us, but also for our families. I was also able to reconnect with friends I hadn’t been in touch with for a long time, which made the experience even more meaningful.

### Running

I also achieved a significant milestone in running. I broke my personal full marathon record and became a sub-3 runner at the Saitama Marathon 2025, held in March. This had been a long-term goal, and I feel very fulfilled having achieved it. In December, I also set a new personal best in the half marathon. My running performance has been steadily improving, and my next target is to run a sub-2:50 marathon.


## Toward 2026

2025 was a year filled with remarkable new events and challenges, and I actively took them on. In 2026, I want to focus more on stability and continuous improvement and evolution. I hope to keep practicing the good habits I built in 2025 and, along that same trajectory, achieve even more meaningful results.。


## Best buy / books

- **Panasonic - Auto Cooker Bistro** This item has dramatically changed our cooking life. It has significantly lowered the barrier to making simmered dishes. I can cook almost anything—pork miso soup, stew, tomato-based dishes, and more. I feel like we use it at least three times a week.

- **Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds/Headphones** I bought both the Bose earbuds and headphones. Their noise-canceling performance is extremely powerful and guides me into a quiet, calm environment. I use the earbuds in summer and the headphones during the colder seasons.

### Running Items

- **Hoka Clifton 10** My running shoes for easy jogging. They have excellent cushioning and are very lightweight. I used the previous version of the Clifton heavily. Since the sole drop has changed, the feel is slightly different, but overall they are even better shoes.

- **NewbalanceFuelCell Rebel v5** My running shose for high-tempo runs. They have highly responsive cushioning and play an important role in this type of training.

- **DECATHLON WARM tights - RUN 100 WARM** The tights for running. They have a brushed lining, are warm, flexible, and very comfortable. And they’re cheap—only 3,000 yen. I ended up buying a second pair.

- **DECATHLON WARM long thrieve shirt** This is a half-zip long-sleeve shirt. Like the tights, it has a lined interior, making it warm and comfortable. The half-zip design allows for easy temperature adjustment. During long runs, it has helped reduce the problem of my body getting cold from sweat in the later stages, which used to make running difficult.

### Books

- **Leading Effective Engineering Teams** This book does an excellent job of summarizing the fundamentals of building and nurturing engineering teams. I don’t think I can remember everything, so I’d like to revisit it regularly in the future.

- **闇と闇と光 - The Real Story of M&A** This is a Japanese book about real-world M&A story. It describes what happens when companies are acquired, as well as the background and real negotiations that take place behind the scenes

- **決算書の読み方 - How to Read Financial Statements** This book explains how to read financial statements using concrete examples. Recently, I’ve started investing in individual stocks, so I wanted to learn how to properly read B/S, P/L, and C/F statements—while also understanding the underlying business context behind the numbers. Even within the same industry, financial statements can look completely different, which made the book especially interesting.

- **国宝 - Kokuhō** The movie was incredibly good, so I ended up reading the novel as well. The novel tells a richer and more layered story than the film, and I was deeply moved by it.